NAME
 outguess - universal steganographic tool

SYNOPSIS
 outguess [OPTIONS] inputfile outputfile

DESCRIPTION
 OutGuess is a universal steganographic tool that allows the insertion of
 hidden information into the redundant bits of data sources. The nature of the
 data source is irrelevant to the core of OutGuess. The program relies on data
 specific handlers that will extract redundant bits and write them back after
 modification. Currently only the PPM, PNM, and JPEG image formats are
 supported, although OutGuess could use any kind of data, as long as a handler
 were provided.

 OutGuess uses a generic iterator object to select which bits in the data
 should be modified. A seed can be used to modify the behavior of the iterator.
 It is embedded in the data along with the rest of the message. By altering the
 seed, OutGuess tries to find a sequence of bits that minimizes the number of
 changes in the data that have to be made.

 A bias is introduced that favors the modification of bits that were extracted
 from a high value, and tries to avoid the modification of bits that were
 extracted from a low value.

 Additionally, OutGuess allows for the hiding of two distinct messages in the
 data, thus providing plausible deniability. It keeps track of the bits that
 have been modified previously and locks them. A (23,12,7) Golay code is used
 for error correction to tolerate collisions on locked bits. Artificial errors
 are introduced to avoid modifying bits that have a high bias.

OPTIONS
 The following command line options, when specified as capital letters,
 indicate options for the second message.

 -F [+-]         Specifies that OutGuess should preserve statistics based on
                 frequency counts. As a result, no statistical test that is
                 based on frequency counts will be able to detect
                 steganographic content. This option is set as on by default.
 -kK <key>       Specify the secret key used to encrypt and hide the message in
                 the provided data.
 -dD <datafile>  Specify the filename containing a message to be hidden in the
                 data.
 -sS <seed>      Specify the initial seed the iterator object uses for selecting
                 bits in the redundant data. If no upper limit is specified, the
                 iterator will use this seed without searching for a more
                 optimal embedding.
 -iI <limit>     Specify the upper limit for finding an optimal iterator seed.
                 The maximum value for the limit is 65535.
 -eE             Use error correction for data encoding and decoding.

 Other options that apply to the general execution of OutGuess:

 -r            Retrieve a message from a data object. If this option is not
               specified, OutGuess will embed messages.
 -x <maxkeys>  If the second key does not create an iterator object that is
               successful in embedding the data, the program will derive up to
               specified number of new keys.
 -p param      Passes a string as parameter to the destination data handler.
               For the JPEG image format, this is the compression quality, it
               can take values between 75 and 100. The higher the quality the
               more bits to hide a message in the data are available.
 -m            Mark pixels that have been modified.
 -t            Collect statistics about redundant bit usage. Repeated use
               increases output level.

 For embedding messages, you need to specify a source and a destination
 filename. OutGuess determines the data format by the filename extension. If no
 filenames are specified OutGuess operates as a filter and assumes the PPM data
 format.

EXAMPLES
 To embed the message hidden.txt into the monkey.jpg image:

    $ outguess -k "my secret pass phrase" -d hidden.txt monkey.jpg out.jpg

 And in the other direction:

    $ outguess -k "my secret pass phrase" -r out.jpg message.txt

 will retrieve the hidden message from the image.

 If you want to embed a second message, use:

    $ outguess -k "secret1" -d hide1.txt -E -K "secret2" -D hide2.txt monkey.jpg out.jpg

 OutGuess will first embed hide1.txt and then hide2.txt on top of it, using
 error correcting codes. The second message hide2.txt can be retrieved with

    $ outguess -k "secret2" -e -r out.jpg message.txt

SEE ALSO
 cjpeg(1), djpeg(1), pnm(5), seek_script(1), stirmark(1)

AUTHOR
 OutGuess was originally developed by Niels Provos <provos@citi.umich.edu> and
 is maintained by some people.

 Currently, source code and newer versions are available at
 https://github.com/resurrecting-open-source-projects/outguess
